Understanding Person Identification Through Gait Virtually secure: A taxonomic assessment of cybersecurity challenges in virtual reality environments A systematic threat analysis and defense strategies for the metaverse and extended reality systems Rise of the Metaverse?s Immersive Virtual Reality Malware and the Man-in-the-Room Attack & Defenses Modeling and Defense of Social Virtual Reality Attacks Inducing Cybersickness SoK: A Systematic Literature Review of Knowledge-Based Authentication on Augmented Reality Head-Mounted Displays A First Look into Privacy Leakage in 3D Mixed Reality Data Gait recognition is the process of identifying humans from their bipedal locomotion such as walking or running. As such, gait data is privacy sensitive information and should be anonymized where possible. With the rise of higher quality gait recording techniques, such as depth cameras or motion capture suits, an increasing amount of detailed gait data is captured and processed. The introduction and rise of the Metaverse is an example of a potentially popular application scenario in which the gait of users is transferred onto digital avatars. As a first step towards developing effective anonymization techniques for high-quality gait data, we study different aspects of movement data to quantify their contribution to gait recognition. We first extract categories of features from the literature on human gait perception and then design experiments for each category to assess how much the information they contain contributes to recognition success. We evaluated the utility of gait perturbation by means of naturalness ratings in a user study. Our results show that gait anonymization will be challenging, as the data is highly redundant and inter-dependent. Although Virtual Reality (VR) is certainly not a new technology, its recent adoption across several sectors beyond entertainment has led the information security research community to take note of the new cy-ber threats that come with it. The variety of system components presents an extensive attack surface that can be exploited. At the same time, VR's emphasis on immersion, interaction and presence means that the user can be targeted directly, yet the use of head-mounted displays may prevent them from observing a cyber attack's impact in their immediate physical environment. This paper presents the first taxonomic representation of VR security challenges. By systemically classifying existing VR cyber threats against ex-isting defences in a single comparative matrix, we aim to help researchers from different backgrounds to identify key focus areas where further research would be most beneficial.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. With the rapid development and evolution of immersive technologies there are growing concerns of security and privacy threats to the metaverse and extended reality (XR) systems. Immersive reality solutions are a combination of multiple vulnerable technologies allowing attackers to easily undermine security. Furthermore the deployment of appropriate security controls and defensive mechanisms for resource constrained proprietary XR products has been limited. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive overview of extended reality systems and the metaverse with emphasis on technology weaknesses, cyber security challenges and users' safety concerns. Five major taxonomies have been presented in this research with an aim of identifying privacy inference vectors and potential cyber threats; determining the impact on human health and the extent to which cyberstalking, and digital currency scam activities proliferate when using XR. This research also proposes strategies for primary lines of defense and provides recommendations on the adoption of safety measures. The allure of the metaverse along with Virtual Reality (VR) technologies and speed at which they are deployed may shift focus away from security and privacy fundamentals. In this work we employ classic exploitation techniques against cutting edge devices to obtain equally novel results. The unique features of the Virtual Reality landscape set the stage for our primary account of a new attack, the Man-in-the-Room (MitR). This attack, realized from a vulnerable social networking application led to both worming and botnet capabilities being adapted for VR with potential critical impacts affecting millions of users. Our work improves the state-of-the-art in Virtual Reality (VR) security and socio-technical research in VR. It shares several analytical and attacking tools, example exploits, evaluation dataset, and vulnerability signatures with the scientific and professional communities to ensure secure VR software development. The presented results demonstrate the detection and prevention of VR vulnerabilities, and raise questions in the law and policy domains pertaining to VR security and privacy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. Social Virtual Reality Learning Environments (VRLE) offer a new medium for flexible and immersive learning environments with geo-distributed users. Ensuring user safety in VRLE application domains such as education, flight simulations, military training is of utmost importance. Specifically, there is a need to study the impact of immersion attacks (e.g., chaperone attack, occlusion) and other types of attacks/faults (e.g., unauthorized access, network congestion) that may cause user safety issues (i.e., inducing of cybersickness). In this article, we present a novel framework to quantify the security, privacy issues triggered via immersion attacks and other types of attacks/faults. By using a real-world social VRLE viz., vSocial and creating a novel attack-fault tree model, we show that such attacks can induce undesirable levels of cybersickness. Next, we convert these attack-fault trees into stochastic timed automata (STA) representations to perform statistical model checking for a given attacker profile. Using this model checking approach, we determine the most vulnerable threat scenarios that can trigger high occurrence cases of cybersickness for VRLE users. Lastly, we show the effectiveness of our attack-fault tree modeling by incorporating suitable design principles such as hardening, diversity, redundancy and principle of least privilege to ensure user safety in a VRLE session. The adoption of Augmented Reality (AR) technology has increased over the years. AR enhances various activities for consumers and businesses, particularly in industrial contexts. The three-dimensional virtual experience is realized by the usage of Head-Mounted Displays (HMD). These devices provide access to sensitive data and services. Thus, secure and usable authentication schemes are essential to control access to the HMD and the stored data as well as schemes to authenticate to the services one wants to use with the AR device. We conducted a systematic literature review on knowledge-based authentication schemes for AR HMD. 31 different schemes were identified. These schemes were assessed regarding various aspects including the type of AR HMD, the type of secret, how users input their secret, as well as usability and security aspects. We discuss gaps for future work.  © 2022 Owner/Author. We have seen a rise in mixed (MR) and augmented reality (AR) applications and devices in recent years. Subsequently, we have become familiar with the sensing power of these applications and devices, and we are only starting to realize the nascent risks that these technology puts over our privacy and security. Current privacy protection measures are primarily aimed towards known and well-utilised data types (i.e. location, on-line activity, biometric, and so on) while a few works have focused on looking into the security and privacy risks of and providing protection on MR data, particularly on 3D MR data. In this work, we primarily reveal the privacy leakage from released 3D MR data and how the leakage persist even after implementing spatial generalizations and abstractions. Firstly, we formalize the spatial privacy problem in 3D mixed reality data as well as the adversary model. Then, we demonstrate through an inference model how adversaries can identify 3D spaces and, potentially, infer more spatial information. Moreover, we also demonstrate how compact 3D MR Data can be in terms of memory usage which allows adversaries to create lightweight 3D inference models of user spaces. Virtual Reality; Cyber-physical attacks; Cybersecurity; Privacy; Taxonomy Extended reality (XR); Metaverse; Cyber defense; Privacy; Cyber threats; Cyberstalking; Physical safety; XR commerce; Virtual reality; Augmented reality; Mixed reality; Blockchain; Cybersickness; Currency scams Emerging technologies; Network-level security and protection; Network communications; Network Protocols; Protection mechanisms; Quality analysis and evaluation; System issues; Security and Privacy Protection; Authentication; Communications Applications; Virtual reality; Security and Protection; Artificial augmented and virtual realities; Invasive software (viruses worms Trojan; horses); Unauthorized access (hacking phreaking) Cybersickness; Security; Privacy; Safety; Solid modeling; Servers; Virtual environments; Security and privacy; user safety; cybersickness; virtual reality learning environments; attack-fault trees; statistical model checking; risk assessment; design principles Augmented Reality; Authentication; Head-Mounted Display; Literature Review; Password Entry Mixed and augmented reality; 3D data; Point cloud data; Security and privacy