Securing Data Exchange in the Convergence of Metaverse and IoT Applications World-Driven Access Control for Continuous Sensing Enabling Fine-Grained Permissions for Augmented Reality Applications with Recognizers The convergence of Metaverse and Internet of Things (IoT) presents new opportunities for exchanging data, but it also introduces unprecedented security challenges. With the proliferation of IoT devices, the risk of unauthorized access and data breaches is on the rise, posing significant threats to data confidentiality and integrity. To address these challenges and protect user privacy, comprehensive security solutions are essential. We propose the SafeMetaNet approach, which combines proximity-based authentication, encryption, and blockchain technology to establish secure data exchange in the IoT-Metaverse convergence. SafeMetaNet ensures data confidentiality and integrity through encryption and establishes a tamper-proof record of data exchange using blockchain technology. We evaluated the approach's performance using various metrics, including latency, throughput, and two security metrics: data confidentiality and data integrity, and compared it with existing approaches. Our findings show that SafeMetaNet outperforms existing approaches, providing improved security. SafeMetaNet is a promising solution for secure data exchange in the IoT-Metaverse convergence. © 2023 ACM. Modern applications increasingly rely on continuous monitoring of video, audio, or other sensor data to provide their functionality, particularly in platforms such as the Microsoft Kinect and Google Glass. Continuous sensing by untrusted applications poses significant privacy challenges for both device users and bystanders. Even honest users will struggle to manage application permissions using existing approaches.We propose a general, extensible framework for controlling access to sensor data on multi-application continuous sensing platforms. Our approach, world-driven access control, allows real-world objects to explicitly specify access policies. This approach relieves the user's permission management burden while mediating access at the granularity of objects rather than full sensor streams. A trusted policy module on the platform senses policies in the world and modifies applications' "views" accordingly. For example, world-driven access control allows the system to automatically stop recording in bathrooms or remove bystanders from video frames,without the user prompted to specify or activate such policies. To convey and authenticate policies, we introduce passports, a new kind of certificate that includes both a policy and optionally the code for recognizing a real-world object.We implement a prototype system and use it to study the feasibility of world-driven access control in practice. Our evaluation suggests that world-driven access control can effectively reduce the user's permission management burden in emerging continuous sensing systems. Our investigation also surfaces key challenges for future access control mechanisms for continuous sensing applications. Augmented reality (AR) applications sense the environment, then render virtual objects on human senses. Examples include smartphone applications that annotate storefronts with reviews and XBox Kinect games that show" avatars" mimicking human movements. No current OS has special support for such applications. As a result, permissions for AR applications are necessarily coarse-grained: applications must ask for access to raw sensor feeds, such as video and audio. These raw feeds expose significant additional information beyond what applications need, including sensitive information such as the user’s location, face, or surroundings. Blockchain; Data Exchange; Internet of Things; Metaverse; Security wearable; augmented reality; access control; permissions; continuous sensing