Anggap Anda adalah asisten penelitian dan penulisan saya. Tugas Anda adalah membantu saya menganalisis informasi dari sebuah paper yang akan saya berikan. Anda harus mengidentifikasi informasi berdasarkan kriteria berikut dan memberikan hasil yang lengkap namun ringkas. Pastikan Anda tidak meninggalkan detail penting yang relevan.



Kriteria Analisis:

Tipe Paper: Identifikasi tipe paper (boleh lebih dari satu) dari daftar berikut:
Application, Evaluation, Model, System, Technique.
Application adalah Studies that describe the use of existing metaverse' techniques in order to solve a concrete and relevant problem in the security and privacy domain. That is, these papers do not present novel techniques, but focus on design decisions during the development process.
Evaluation adalah Studies that concentrate on the assessment of applications, often involving users. Evaluations can involve various methodologies, such as case studies, user studies, and controlled experiments.
Model adalah Papers that, for example, introduce formalisms to describe new abstractions, definitions, or terminology to characterize methods or analyze phenomena.
System adalah Studies that focus on the architecture of a framework or toolkit designed to support the development of applications.
Technique adalah provide comprehensive explanations of the supporting algorithms and technical descriptions of the implementations.


Properties: Jelaskan properti keamanan dan privasi (boleh lebih dari satu) yang terkait dengan paper, dari daftar berikut:
Authentication, Confidentiality, Authorization/Access Control, Integrity, Identification, Availability, Non-repudiation, Unobservability & Undetectability, Content Awareness, Anonymity & Pseudonimity, Policy & Consent Compliance, Unlinkability, Plausible Deniability.
Authentication adalah It checks the legitimacy of users who access metaverse device or service, allowing only authenticated users to progress to identification and authorization steps.
Confidentiality adalah It protects sensitive data from unauthorized access by implementing rigorous access controls to personal and identifiable information.
Authoriztion and Access Control adalah It requires that actions and processes be initiated only by verified parties with appropriate access levels, guaranteeing that only authorized apps can interact with specified data or objects.
Integrity adalah It relates to ensuring that data and processes in metaverse environment remain unchanged and accurate, allowing for the proper detection and display of virtual augmentations without unauthorized changes.
Identification adalah It entails assigning each action within metaverse system to a specific entity, hence easing access management and avoiding unwanted actions by ensuring all participants are recognized.
Availability adalah It emphasizes the importance of ongoing access to data and services inside a metaverse application, preventing attackers from impeding these resources.
Non-repudiation adalah It assures that if an action is made or data is modified within metaverse application, the entity responsible cannot deny their involvement, hence establishing accountability via digital evidence.
Unobservability and Undetectability adalah It protects entities' presence or activity from detection by attackers, ensuring that activities stay secret and indistinguishable from noise.
Content Awareness adalah It ensures that users are completely aware of the nature and sensitivity of the data they share, fostering transparency and informed consent.
Anonymity and Pseudonimity adalah It enables entities to separate or disguise their identities from data or actions, providing privacy while preventing adversaries from tracing activities back to individuals.
Policy and Consent Compliance adalah It ensures a system to comply specified privacy and security rules, ensuring that user rights are respected and enforced.
Unlinkability adalah It prevents adversaries from linking an entity to specific data or behaviors, protecting privacy by hiding linkages between user activities.
Plausible Deniability adalah It allows entities to plausibly deny involvement in actions or data storage while providing privacy protection against data origin tracing.


Components: Tentukan komponen (boleh lebih dari satu) yang menjadi fokus utama paper dari daftar berikut:
Virtual World, Mirror World, Augmented Reality, Lifelogging.
Virtual World adalah Digital environments where users interact with each other and the surroundings through avatars.
Mirror World adalah Creating digital replicas of the real world, accurately reproducing real-life locations, events, and objects.
Augmented Reality adalah The process of superimposing digital information or objects onto the real world using devices.
Lifelogging adalah The ongoing process of recording one's own experiences and daily activities, often using wearable devices.

Research Strategy: Sebutkan strategi penelitian (boleh lebih dari satu) yang digunakan dalam paper dari daftar berikut:
Benchmarking, Human Experimentation, Qualitative Surveys (Interviews), Questionnaire Survey, Data Science, Engineering Research, Meta Science.
Benchmarking adalah Compares the efficacy of various methods, tools, or techniques in real-world contexts. Typically, it compares the study with previous works.
Human Experimentation adalah Engages users in testing or model development and observes the effects of deliberate interventions under controlled conditions to study aspects of reality.
Qualitative Survey (Interviews) adalah Consists of semi-structured or open-ended interviews for data collection.
Questionnaire Survey adalah Collects responses to a structured series of questions using digital or paper questionnaires.
Data Science adalah Apply data-centered methodologies, including machine learning algorithms and models for data analysis and interpretation, to examine software engineering phenomena.
Engineering Research adalah Focuses on the creation and evaluation of technological artifacts, including algorithms, systems, tools, and other computer-based technologies.
Meta Science adalah Analyzes research methodologies or offers guidelines for the execution of research, including taxonomy studies.


Evaluation Scenarios: Identifikasi skenario evaluasi (boleh lebih dari satu) dari daftar berikut:
User Performance, User Experience, Understanding Environments and Work Practices, Algorithm Performance.
User Performance adalah assesses measurable factors such as completion time and error rates, alongside quantifiable qualitative assessments.
User Experience adalah focuses on capturing the internal state of users when interacting with a technology. They can collect data that range from initial impressions to long-term usage thoughts. Such evaluations usually involve the use of surveys and interviews, which often collect data using metrics such as the Likert scale.
Understanding Environments and Work Practices adalah relate to assessments to obtain requirements with the goal of understanding the security and privacy needs of users and organizations before developing a metaverse-related approach. Common data collection methods used to understand environments and work practices are surveys and interviews.
Algorithm Performance adalah employing quantitative methods, frequently via benchmarks, to assess the effectiveness and occasionally the efficiency of algorithms, focusing on aspects like speed and resource usage.


Reality: Jelaskan realitas yang menjadi konteks utama paper (boleh lebih dari satu) dari daftar berikut:
Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, Mixed Reality, Extended Reality.
Virtual Reality adalah an artificial digital environment that provides an immersive experience to users, often simulating real-world interactions through multi-sensory feedback.
Augmented Reality adalah a technology that enhances the real world by overlaying digital information such as sound, video, graphics, or GPS data onto it.
Mixed Reality adalah an interactive technology that blends real-world and virtual elements, where digital and physical objects coexist and interact in real-time.
Extended Reality adalah a collective term for immersive technologies like Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), and Mixed Reality (MR) that enhance or replace the physical world with digital elements, exemplified by headsets that overlay holograms onto the real world or fully immersive simulations.


Object: Sebutkan objek utama yang dianalisis dalam paper (gunakan kata benda).



Purpose: Jelaskan tujuan utama analisis dalam paper dan apa yang ingin dicapai.



Focus: Identifikasi fokus penelitian (boleh lebih dari satu) dari daftar berikut:
Correctness, Robustness, Completion Time, Usability.



Context: Jika paper melibatkan pengguna atau evaluasi tertentu, jelaskan konteksnya. Contohnya:
Berapa jumlah peserta eksperimen, dataset yang digunakan, library yang diuji, atau perangkat yang terlibat.



Data yang Diberikan:
Title: What You Experience is WhatWe Collect: User Experience Based Fine-Grained Permissions for Everyday Augmented Reality

Abstract: Everyday Augmented Reality (AR) headsets pose signifcant privacy risks, potentially allowing prolonged sensitive data collection of both users and bystanders (e.g. members of the public). While users control data access through permissions, current AR systems inherit smartphone permission prompts, which may be less appropriate for all-day AR. This constrains informed choices and risks over-privileged access to sensors. We propose (N=20) a novel AR permission control system that allows better-informed privacy decisions and evaluate it using fve mock application contexts. Our system’s novelty lies in enabling users to experience the varying impacts of permission levels on not only a) privacy, but also b) application functionality. This empowers users to better understand what data an application depends on and how its functionalities are impacted by limiting said data. Participants found that our method allows for making better informed privacy decisions, and deemed it more transparent and trustworthy than state-of-the-art AR and smartphone permission systems taken from Android and iOS. Our results ofer insights into new and necessary AR permission systems, improving user understanding and control over data access.

Threat Model: -

Evaluation-related Section: 5.1 Contexts Five diferent contexts were formulated to evaluate our control methods so the participants could have enough “hands-on” time to judge and confgure the permission control methods reasonably. Each context is an application archetype upon which we would test our envisaged permission prompts. Subtitle: This app provides situational awareness to AR users about the people in their surroundings. This application archetype is based on the work from Google [33, 85]. Filterr: This app allows AR users to apply face and body flters onto other people. This application archetype is based on Snapchat [107]. Room Designer: This is an interior design app that allows AR users to design the room they are currently in. This application archetype is based on the Ikea Place app [48]. StreetNav: This app provides AR users with directions to walk in order to navigate to a location. This application archetype is based on Google Maps [34]. AR Health: This app tracks AR users’ mental and physical health, and its archetype is based on Apple Health [7]. Each of the contexts was a means of presenting diferent permission prompts for diferent application archetypes. Hence, we did not have a functional application for any context and did not collect any of the data the permissions requested. 5.2 Permission Control Methods Five permission control variables were used for this study as presented in Figure 4. Two fne-grained permission methods Slider w/o Image control and Slider w/ Image control. Three baselines from state-of-the-art permission methods Binary control, Android 11 control, and iOS control. During the study the Android 11 control and iOS control were referred as “Data Access Without Description Control” and “Data Access With Description Control” as we did not want to bias the participants by showing brand names or collect results based on any preconceived notions of the two companies privacy practices. 5.2.1 Permission Controls Texts. For each of the contexts, the permission controls text changed. The slider segments for the Slider w/o Image control and Slider w/ Image control are associated with a specifc AR API that currently has the capability to manipulate and process the sensor data in this way by default. The segments for Subtitle are derived from the Android Media and Audio API. The segments for Filterr are derived from the StereoLabs ZED SDK 3. The segments for Room Designer are derived from the Microsoft Mixed Reality API. The segments for StreetNav are derived from the Google Android Location API and Google’s AR Core. Finally, the segments for AR Health are derived from both the Google Android and Apple iOS API’s. The text on the Binary control is taken from the Meta store. The Android 11 control text is from the Android Play Store. The iOS control text is taken from the iOS App Store. The Binary control and Android 11 control displays a message asking for access to a sensor. The iOS control displays a contextualised justifcation for a sensor. Both Sliders present a slider ranging from 1 (Deny) to 5 (Full sensor access). For a complete detailed view of the permission control text, see Table 4-5, in the Appendix. 5.3 Dependent Variables After each condition, the participants were asked to complete unweighted NASA-TLX questionnaire [45] to measure perceivedworkload for each permission control method. Next, participants are asked questions on perceived understanding used in [44] and [53]. Once the participants have completed all twenty-fve conditions at the end of the study, participants were asked to fll out 5-point Likert questions on perceived usability and trust and rank the permission control methods in order of preference. These questions were asked at the end so that the participants could have sufcient time to use each permission control method. The usability questions are based on the System Usability Scale (SUS) [15] and a question used in [44]. 5.4 Post-Study Semi-Structured Interview The post-study semi-structured interview was conducted to gain more in-depth insights into the decisions made by the participants about their mindset and thinking when based on the actions in the user study and questionnaire responses. The researcher followed an interview guide (see subsection A.1) to ensure consistency among all the participants while having the freedom to explore and discuss topics brought up during the interview. Interview questions examined comprehension and attitudes towards the permission control methods experienced, in particular contrasting the Slider w/o Image control and Slider w/ Image control with participant’s prior experience both with mobile device permissions and the baselines presented in this study, before fnally discussing enhancements to the fne-grained permission controls. 6 METHODOLOGY A within-subject study was conducted to evaluate the diferent AR permission control methods. The study aimed to understand to what extent AR users would engage with fne-grained preferences, pictorial and textual descriptions’ infuence on permission confguration, and attitudes towards adopting fne-grained permission prompts. This study involved participants wearing an AR headset to interact with diferent permissions controls within diferent application contexts, followed by questionnaires to refect on the overall conditions and ending with a semi-structured interview. 6.1 Recruitment and Demographics Our Institution’s Research Ethics Board granted ethics approval before conducting the research. The complete study took 60 minutes of the participants’ time; the participants received £10 Amazon gift cards as reimbursement. We recruited 20 participants by sending invitations over a university mailing list, posting on social media, and word of mouth. All potential participants had to be aged 18+ to take part. Our participants were within the age range of 20-40 (M = 27.45, SD = 5.30). Nine participants self-identifed as female and eleven self-identifed as male. The option of non-binary and other was available yet was not selected. Zero participants declared they had not heard of AR; two participants declared they had never used AR but knew of it; nine declared they had used mobile AR infrequently (AR games such as Pokemon GO, AR applications); one declared they had used mobile AR frequently (AR games such as Pokemon GO, AR applications); and nine declare they have used an AR headset (Hololens, VR headset with passthrough). We used the Internet Users’ Information Privacy Concerns questionnaire (IUIPC) [62] to assess participants’ general privacy attitudes. The IUIPC’s score is between 1 and 7, where 7 represents a high privacy attitude. Participants rated their wish for control (M = 5.96, SD = 0.05), awareness (M = 6.43, SD = 0.30), and the perceived ratio between beneft and collection (M = 5.77, SD = 0.10). A limitation of privacy questionnaires is that they only provide the theoretical privacy attitudes of the user and do not provide insight into if the attitudes are present in practice [32]. Nonetheless, the mean scores implying the participants represent a high general privacy attitude. 6.2 Study Procedure Once the participant was ready to begin the study, they wore a pair of XReal Light AR glasses [82]. The lead researcher explained to the participant how to use the AR headset and controller. The experiment had fve diferent contexts, each with fve permission control methods, allowing the participants to confgure the requested permission(s). The order of the contexts and permissions controls presented to the participant was counterbalanced using a 5x5 Latin Square [115]. The participant started the study when presented with a context while wearing the AR headset. The researcher read a description of the context as stated in subsection 5.1. After confrming they understood the context and needed no further repetition, the participant was shown a permission control method presented in subsection 5.2. The participant was then asked to explore each option and make an informed choice based on if they were using this application in reality. After the participant confgured the permissions, they were asked to complete a questionnaire on a tablet. The participant was asked not to take of the AR glasses while flling out the questionnaire so they could refer back to the permission control method at any time. Once the participant interacted with all fve permissions control methods, this process was repeated for all the other contexts. After completing all conditions, the participant removed the AR headset, completed another questionnaire, and ranked the permission control methods on a tablet. Printouts of the fve permission control methods were given to the participant to aid their memory. Once the participant completed the questionnaires, a semistructured interview was conducted (see subsection 5.4).

Conclusion: In this paper, we explored permission methods to allow AR users to control their privacy efectively.We presented and evaluated (N=20) fve diferent AR permission control methods across fve diferent usage contexts. We introduced a novel permission control method to explore how users customise the trade-of between their privacy and application functionality.We found that our participants prefer permission control methods that allow them fne-grained controls over the data they provide compared to prompts that request full access, even when users can provide temporary access, such as “Allow once”. Our participants preferred permission controls that allowed them to experience why the data was requested and how the data would add to the app’s functionality through graphical and textual explanations. Moreover, we found that our participants were more likely to trust the app when it is transparent with users about requesting data. Our work creates space for new permission control methods built explicitly for head-worn AR to be explored methods that consider the advantages, challenges and diferences of AR compared to other devices, such as smartphones, in order to protect user privacy.